We're gonna make cellular phones,
right here in the stone world!
Granted, this time it'll just be a
regular phone, not the smart kind.
We can do this!
We were able to make sulfa drugs,
and they took a ton of work, too!
Uh, listen...
You guys clearly aren't aware of this,
but this road map is full
of implausible things.
Nothing implausible about it.
No matter how far off the goal may seem,
if you stick to the rules, you'll get
there ten billion percent of the time.
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Plastic
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
That's how science works.
We have a few months to finish it.
What do you mean?
That's how long we have before
Tsukasa's full-on assault.
What's your take, mentalist?
Let's see...
Thinking like Tsukasa-chan...
We control the revival fluid.
The more time that passes, the greater
our advantage in manpower. Yes.
But it's Senku we're up against.
If we give him too much time,
he'll start mass-producing gunpowder.
Your voice imitations are way too accurate.
We'll take every precaution to
ensure that we defeat Senku.
We're going to need to divert a lot of
manpower in preparation for the winter.
Also, Hyoga, according to your information,
the kingdom of science is a fortress on water.
Yes.
It's protected by a lake that all
but freezes over in the winter.
If they hold the fort,
it will be difficult to attack.
Our morale and food wouldn't
outlast theirs in an encirclement.
First of all...
Aren't Taiju and Yuzuriha in danger if
Tsukasa finds out you're still alive?
Won't they be killed?
That won't be an issue.
Those two are potential hostages to them.
They won't waste that.
Is it safe to let Taiju-kun
and Yuzuriha-kun roam free?
I'll have someone watch them.
But let's continue interacting
with them as we have
so they won't suspect anything.
Even if Taiju and Yuzuriha are spies,
there's no way for them to convey
information in this world.
The greater concern is a
preemptive attack from Senku.
I have Homura-kun keeping an eye on them.
Although we don't have any
means of communication, either,
so there's a delay in getting information.
How ironic.
The importance of communication
and information transfer
is especially important in
such a primitive battle.
The rules of the game are simple.
We're going to make cell phones in order to
take Tsukasa down with a preemptive strike.
So the battle will happen right
after the winter snow melts.
Our deadline is spring.
The Age of Energy
It sure makes a difference
having so many people to help.
It's all because Senku won the
seat of the village chief.
Good news indeed.
Copper
Coal
Charcoal
Beehive
Sulfuric
Acid
Lead
Tin
Solder
Gold
Wire
Coil
Mercury
Vacuum
Pump
Phosphorus
Rochelle
Salt
Plastic
Battery
Circuit Board
Vacuum Tube
Light Bulb
Wine
Microphone
Headphones
Cell Phone
We're taking on the huge task of making
cell phones in the stone world.
There's a mountain of
hurdles we need to clear.
Oh, yeah!
That cell phone thing!
Tell me how it lets you talk
to people really far away!
C'mon, tell me! Hurry up!
How does it work?!
Hurry up and tell me!
Give me some space!
You're getting way too excited.
Listen up.
Your voice is a vibration of air.
Point that vibration at a diaphragm,
and it produces a super tiny electrical
current in rhythm with the vibration.
Oh, damn!
The current is way too small,
of course, so you blow it up.
For our purposes, we're using a vacuum tube.
Then, we send it around
and around in a circle,
which sends it flowing
in a wave of power.
Oh, damn!
That's called a radio wave.
The listening side just
does the exact opposite.
Oh, damn!
O-Oh! I got about half of that!
I got none of it.
This conversation's so high-IQ,
it's making my head hurt.
What exactly are we going to make first?
The first thing we're making in
our giant science project is...
a cotton candy machine.
Cot...
...ton...
...can...
...dy?
The conversation's IQ just
dropped by, like, a hundred.
Are you okay?
Making... something.
New weapon?
What's this?
You put sugar crystals in
here and spin it around.
The centrifugal force pushes the
molten sugar out through the small holes,
resulting in thin strands.
That makes cotton candy.
But what do you think would happen
if you used gold instead of sugar?
We'll get gold threads!
Correct. Ten billion points.
Oh, like the wires in electronics.
The conversation's IQ is finally going back up.
All right!
Let's go get the gold!
No, gold's precious.
We can't afford to mess up.
Let's try cotton candy first.
We have to test it out.
Ah, you're right.
We need to taste... I mean, test it.
Someone named Homura started this fire.
We lost a lot of potato wine and
mirin that was almost ready.
It was burning for a long time.
Look.
It's turned into chunks on
the rims of the barrels.
What are we doing with the damaged wine?
This is stuff you can get by boiling
wine and mirin for a really long time.
They're sugar crystals.
What's that fluffy stuff?
Man, it smells so good.
It's so white, like a cloud.
This is indescribable!
It's going to melt me to my core.
It is!
Here, Father, try some.
It's rather suspicious-looking.
They've never had any actual candy before.
It's so good!
Yeah.
It's just cotton candy, but for
someone who's never had it before,
it must be a mind-blowingly
pleasurable drug.
Gotta thank Homura-chan for
making the materials for us
by starting that fire, huh?
Gen...
Do you know what kind of woman Homura is?
What's going on? Do you get
curious about girls, too, Senku?
Do you have a thing for petite girls?
No, I don't think that's what he meant.
You guys don't know Senku very well.
We're being watched.
All of us.
By that Homura chick.
I'm sure we are.
She's the only one Hyoga-chan trusts.
Even right now?
Of course she's watching us.
From a good distance, where she
can see if we make any big moves,
so she can chase us down
if we were all to run away.
I thought we'd just run
away if things got bad.
Not that we'd ever run away.
Indeed. We have many elderly people
who couldn't endure a move.
There are no cowards in this village
who would leave the elderly behind.
Eep!
N-Nope!
Of course there aren't!
Well, Homura-chan respects
Hyoga-sama like crazy.
She'd never disobey him if
he told her to watch us.
So she won't cause us any
trouble if we leave her be,
but I don't think we could get
her to switch sides or anything.
Cotton Candy
Cotton candy?
Don't worry, it's not
poisoned or anything.
Give half of it to an
animal if you're worried.
Fool. Not trying it.
Hey, Senku, why did we give
an enemy cotton candy?
If Homura's keeping an eye on us,
she'll let Tsukasa know
about the cotton candy.
Sweets are crazy tempting.
Some of them might
rethink their allegiance.
I see.
You're as nasty as ever, Senku-chan.
I mean that as a compliment, honestly.
I'm sure he means that in
a strategic way, too...
But I think Senku-san also just wanted
to share some candy with a girl.
I think that's all he really meant.
We're dealing with people so naïve that they
wouldn't even abandon a village guard.
One lick... I'm dead?
Surely not.
Sweet...
Senkutei
P-P-Please and thank you.
This cotton candy...
It's puffy and melts on my tongue,
yet it has a good amount of roughness.
Alas!
The inconsistency of the cotton
is defeating the flavor's balance.
I'll work harder next time!
Wait, no!
You just made me go along with a meme!
Who cares about how
well-balanced cotton candy is?!
You guys got the word "meme," huh?
Was that in the Hundred Tales?
Damn it, my dad is such a joke.
Do we really have so much time to waste?!
Tsukasa-kun's gonna be here
before our phone's done!
Relax.
We're discussing a serious matter.
The flavor of cotton candy?
If the cotton candy ends up
with a bunch of clumps,
so will the gold wire, right?
Oh, that makes sense!
Man, good thing we tested
with cotton candy first, huh?
Yeah.
We have to figure out what's causing
the clumps before we throw in the gold.
We're always doing last-minute
trial-and-error, huh?
There!
Yeah.
It's the moment the rope's tugged
in the opposite direction.
The rotation speed drops,
which causes it to clump up.
Is there a way to make it work
smoothly without losing speed?
Using your brotherly bond, maybe?
That's crazy.
Then let's use a stupidly long rope.
Like, a kilometer long.
I'll die!
How about we spin it by hand,
like that generator over there?
That's too slow.
That's what willpower's for!
Maybe if we take turns.
We need people, though.
We need to start preparing for winter.
We can't give all our
manpower to science work.
That's always the issue, huh?
We can't use revival
fluid to get more people.
Guess we'll have to make it, then.
It's a bit of work, but super craftsman
Kaseki-sama can pull it off.
We're making what revolutionized
energy in human history...
The gear!
Kohaku's shield, just when we need it!
It's ten billion percent
the right shape for a gear.
You're using that?
Didn't the village chief
give that to his daughter
Kohaku-chan to celebrate his victory?
...to his daughter Kohaku-chan?
Grand Bout victor: Kokuyo!
Congrats!
This is so nice.
All right, you can have it.
Thank you, Father!
Father!
Well, I don't mind, but...
It means a lot to Kohaku,
since she received it from her father.
So I don't know what she would say.
Nah, I don't mind at all.
Practicality first.
So savage!
This is amazing!
It's so easy!
I only have to go in one direction,
and I can go slowly!
I could keep going forever on my own!
Gear acquired!!
Can go slowly?
Forever in one direction?
It spins around and catches...
Holy crap! I have an idea!
This is gonna rock!
What's gotten into you?!
Just hear me out!
Right! Let's haul ass!
That's suspicious.
What's Chrome up to?
He must've come up with some scheme.
Let him be.
When a boy's up to mischief,
you're not supposed to look until he's done.
We don't have time to
be worrying about him.
You're all in for hellish work.
We twist these gold threads together into a
super thin wire that we'll work into a coil.
And how long do we need to make it?
I'd say...
From right around here...
to that mountain!
So we're relying heavily
on manpower again.
Thank goodness you became the
village chief, huh, Senku-chan?
It's... It's done, Senku.
We stayed up for three whole days.
What is this?
I'm awesome, too, but it's this blade
of science that's really awesome.
It would have never worked if I
didn't have this iron cutting tool.
This damn thing!
What do you think, Senku?
Is my invention awesome or what?
This is payback for when you
got me good with the magnet!
You can be more shocked than that.
It's a waterwheel.
You do know what it is?! Damn it!
A waterwheel?
I'd already come up with a name for it!
The Forever Spinny Cotton Candy Machine!
I like waterwheel better.
Oh, I'm plenty shocked, all right.
I can't believe you built something
like this without any knowledge.
This is a way bigger deal than an
automatic cotton candy machine.
There's something else, remember?
That thing Kinro and Ginro had been spinning.
You don't mean...
With gears and a waterwheel,
the age of human power is over.
With an infinite contraption
that requires no fuel...
We're finally harnessing the power of nature.
We're overcoming manpower and
entering the age of energy!
Hydroelectric power plant acquired!!
Spartan Crafts Club
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.